#ICS 33: Device-Communication-Simulation
Simulation of how device would communicate with one another on the Internet

Our simulation model is based around a few concepts.

We're simulating a distributed system made up of devices, which we'll assume are Internet-connected electronic devices that are able to communicate with each other individually (i.e., one device can send a message to another device). It's not particularly important to us what the devices do otherwise; we only care that they're able to communicate with one another.
Each device has a device ID, which is a non-negative integer value that uniquely identifies it.
When one of the devices detects an issue that will potentially affect other devices, it raises an alert, with the goal of making all of the other devices aware of the issue. To do that, it sends a message to some subset of the devices, which, in turn, send messages to other devices, and so on, in a process that we call propagation. That way, if there are thousands of devices, the alerting device doesn't have to send thousands of messages itself; instead, it can send a message to a few of them, then rely on them to spread the word. (While ours is a dramatic simplification, this is at least a little bit similar to how peer-to-peer protocols like BitTorrent work.)
Every alert has a description, which we can think of as a short string of text that uniquely identifies it, so that we can differentiate alerts from one another. When an alert is propagated from one device to another, the description is left intact, so that every device recognizes it the same way.
When the issue causing an alert is resolved, a device performs a cancellation, notifying other devices that the alert is no longer active. A cancellation will include the description of the alert being canceled, so that devices can correlate a cancellation with an alert. Once a device has been notified that an alert has been canceled, it will never propagate that alert to other devices again.
Each device is configured to propagate alerts and cancellations to a predefined collection of other devices, which we'll call its propagation set.
Whenever a device receives an alert or cancellation, it immediately notifies all of the devices in its propagation set unless it's previously received a cancellation of that same alert. We'll say that this introduces a delay into the process, which is to say that when a device sends a message at some particular time, it will be received at some later time. (As a practical matter, such a delay might partly arise because receiving a message, processing it, and sending it out to another device takes time, but might also be an intentional slowing-down to avoid flooding the network with messages. The longer the delay, the less bandwidth is used in proagating alerts and cancellations, but the longer it takes for faraway devices to become aware of one.)
